
# Lab Report: Illuminating the press

#### Sabina Stan

## Process Description

I arrived early to class and met the fire marshal, so I knew a bit of what was going on ahead of time. I actually thought we might be doing something with acid and making designs in copper plates! I think the candlelight activity was much more peaceful though.
We did this lab in a dark room and worked by candlelight. We had about one candle per person, it was enough light that you could still see all through the room but it was very different from the usual overhead lighting. First, we were tasked with copying a letter by hand. We were given a photocopy of an older letter, luckily I got one of the clearer ones. My neighbour had a much more difficult letter, written by Virginia Wolfe. I had a letter by Frederick Douglass, who had excellent penmanship. After this, we moved onto looking at a geography textbook. All the books were the same edition from different years, all from the early 1800s though. 
 
## Observations

The candles really changed the atmosphere of the classroom. It felt much warmer (although that might have been the lack of AC) and calmer. We often lose power in Bermuda during hurricanes or winter gales, so reading by candlelight (even doing homework by it when I was young) was a pleasant familiar feeling. I was also very lucky getting one of the clearer letters to transcribe, it was basically just cursive. My grandmother is a big believer that I should be able to read old family letters and get used to reading that style of handwriting, so it was overall an easy task. Even words where I wasn’t sure what they were spelling, I could go back and look at letters and words that I knew, like checking a T wasn’t an L, etc. I found that I had to make sure I didn’t sigh or yawn, since then the candle would flicker. I found myself trying to direct my breath at the table to be safe. It cast a small show since it was on my right, and I’m right-handed, but I didn’t find it to be too bad. I would just adjust the paper until the problem was solved. I also hand my writing paper over the photocopy of the letter, and I would shift it down a line as I finished it which kept my place in the letter. We also discussed the discomfort that comes with writing in class. I’ll discuss it farther in the analysis, but it was something that did affect me quite a bit. I started typing in school much earlier than most of my peers due to my disability making it hard to write for an extended period of time. This was probably the longest I’ve written by hand outside of maths in years! I even journal on a computer now. I really felt it for the next few days, and it did make me think of any scribe who had any form of joint problem. 
Next, we moved on to the geography textbook. I started looking at the earliest one, before moving to the of the later editions. I noticed here that it was more difficult to use the candlelight. Since the book was quite old, I was worried about picking it up and moving it to make it easier to read by the candlelight. I was also sharing with my neighbour so we had to keep the book where we both could read it. It was unusual to have so few maps in a geography textbook, I could only find one which was a world map. We had discussed in class how these would actually be added separately. When I think now of geography texts, the maps are so integrated I couldn’t imagine the same process. When comparing the two books, we could see where the newer edition had some printing errors, possibly it was a rush job or a pirated edition. The information chosen to be included was interesting. I think that as we learned more, or perhaps as world events happened it would influence what was recorded. For example, volcanos and earthquakes and the speed of light were included in the later edition. I also wonder if it had to do with what was popular at the time, or what was ‘hip’. The newer edition was also smaller which was interesting, as it initially seemed to have more information. I’m not sure how they chose what to remove in each edition, but I guess the things that seemed unimportant or old-news. As Bermuda was one of the bits of information removed between editions, it’s a bit of a sore spot!. 


## Analysis

I hadn’t expected from the title of the lab that we would literally be illuminating the text, but I can see how it makes sense now. The texts didn’t really have much to say on lighting the text, I think previous ones more so, like when we takled about the scribes and how they worked hunched over in dark spaces. I really felt for scribes after this lab, it hurt to write so much. I actually had trouble with my right hand the next day! That is mainly because of my disability but again it brings up how you couldn’t’ be a scribe if you had any muscular issue, or if there was something stopping you from writing, like bad vision. Glasses were somewhat commonplace, but not anything close to what we have today. That is one way that the candlelight showed us how being a scribe wasn’t for everyone. It also made me think of William Blake, and how he likely had ot work by candlelight. It must have been incredibly difficult to see the intricate details by the soft lighting. I suppose he could have waited to do those parts until there was daylight, but I’m sure he would have still benefitted from a bright spotlight even during day hours. It also showed how working only by candles can impact your productivity. It already took long enough to produce work (The Viscomi reading mentioned that Blake worked on Dante’s Inferno for over two years and that he spent 6 months on another illuminated manuscript). If you were forced to only do certain types of work in the bright light, it would make it much more difficult to be efficient. 