# Lab Report: Letterpress I: Composition 

#### Sabina Stan

## Process Description

For this lab we followed on from the last where we made Twitterbots. As a recap, I made my twitter bot post variations on the famous line "One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind". My variation in Tracery.io was "One small (verb) for (noun), one giant (verb) for (noun)kind" where the verbs would be movement related, specifically ones I thought could describe animals, and animals as the nouns. My twitterbot then created "One small flip for rabbit, one giant roll for woodlousekind." With that in hand, this lab was about setting the type to print this phrase in the next lab. 
	First we chose our fonts, and had a refresher on the California Case layouts. We started with the composing stick, and learning how to hold it so that the letters won't fall off. this was having it tilted slightly away from you and down, so that gravity held the letters. We started with a 20-inch bit of lead as the top spacer, and started to compose. The letters are backwards so I had to pay close attention that b's weren't d's. Being dyslexic, this was really really difficult, I had to ask my classmates for help since I honestly couldn't tell a lot of them apart. While the letters are backwards, you still spell the words in the correct order. You also have to place them from right to left. I wanted to have my lines somewhat middle spaced, so I tried to use spacers of even sizes at the start and end of the line. I just managed to fit "One small flip for rabbit" on one line, but I couldn't fit "One giant roll for woodlousekind" on one line, so I decided to put "Woodlousekind" on a third line. This was where I really had to use a lot of spacers to make the single word fit. Since my piece was quite short, I was able to finish quickly. Luckily, my case was pretty full on letters, I just had to get extra spacers to make everything fit nicely. 

## Observations

Putting the type in right to front was surprisingly easy, and didn't trip up my brain even though I'm not used to reading like that. I was surprised by how difficult it was to read the words backwards. It made me think of the compositors who did this all day and how they must have been so good at reading mirror images from their work. Obviously they had to double check and make sure they did the right words, so they had to get good at that. The finite number of letters was something to get used to. I hadn't ever thought about having to adjust what you write to fit the specific character on hand, only in terms of word count or something like that. I was reminded of the David Walker piece where he used a huge number of exclamation points. For the compositors, this must have been a huge concern and inconvienece. I wonder if it had ben deliberate to make a space for him, to be a bother. One of the beautiful things about creating on a computer is that you can type for however long you want and use anything you want, the ink and paper are limitless so to speak. The contrast between this and having to use words that specifically had less letters in something I hadn't considered. They must have been good at Scrabble in that time. 

I really loved the methodical work of it, finding the letters and placing them. I'd actually really like to do a much longer piece I found it cathartic. Getting the tiny spacers in was a bit more frustrating, and it was difficult to remember not to touch my face after handling the lead. There was a feeling of power in setting the type, getting it all just right. I wonder if the compositors felt this as well. They might not have been writing these famous works, but they made them immortal, and I suppose did write them in a way. It is very reminiscent of the scribes who just copied things out, but still had their mark on the piece. This goes back to the Trithemius reading. The compositors and author really must work together for this to work. 

## Analysis

As a woman suddenly becoming a compositor, I thought back to the Werner piece. It just made me frustrated as again there was really no reason why a woman couldn't be doing this work (as we know now). The sexism that was so prevalent then is hard to deal with still since it isn't fully gone. I think there is also a power aspect of the dissemination of information being mainly done by men, and it likely did influence how many works by women ended up printed. 

Type has always been something I thought about, since my mum is a graphic designer and talked a lot about her typography classes as I grew up. I think I knew what serif and sans serif were way before any of my classmates, and my mum was always telling me about how to make text easier to read or what is appropriate for situations. Maybe because of that, I've got a deep love for fonts. I think they can be so beautiful and the impact they have on us is understated. In an earlier reading, this was talked about fully and how we have different reactions to the different fonts. As digitization takes away some of the individuality in writing, fonts give some back. It's done in a very controlled way, a bit 1984-ish. You can only have these certain 'handwritings' to use. A font doesn't actually tell you much about the writer at all, but it does have a huge impact on how we feel about the text. In some cases, I think this is okay. Signs, text books, I think all of these things are fine that we don't have the writer's mark right there. Things like diaries, I think they are more meaningful handwritten. If I printed a diary, maybe then that would have some of that feeling of personality too, but from this last class I know that would take much much too long. You're still using the fonts as well. 
