# Lab Report: Letterpress II: Presswork 

#### Sabina Stan

## Process Description

This was a continuation of our work in the previous class where we had set out the type on a compositers stick. ![Typeset] (images/Typeset1.JPG) It was a shorter lab as we printed in little groups. When it was time for my text to be added to a page I learned about how the text is set in the page. There is a big iron frame (very heavy!) that the text is sat in. It seemed that the professor centered the type by using the same size pieces of furniture on the edges and built inwards until the type was secure. Furniture pieces are these blocks of wood in specific sizes, like larger spacers that we used for the type. He worked inwards, adding the same to each side until the type was secure. Another piece that was added in were quoins (pronounced like coins), which are metal rectangles that could be expanded in one direction with a key. These were placed between the furniture and metal frame and were used to do the final tightening adjustments to make the type secure. ![Type set with furniture] (images/Typeset2.JPG)
Professor Cordell mentioned that the trick with these was to not tighten the quoins as far as they could go, but instead go slowly and keep testing it was enough. He did this by lightly lifting the frame up to make sure that no pieces of type fell out and the pressure was even and enough to keep everything in place. Next we took the completed frame to the press. I got to carry it, and it was much heavier than I expected and I knocked it on the table. Luckily, nothing fell out. Once the page was in place, we learned about the letterpress mechanism. The notable features of the press are the large wheel and pedal, and the big circle of ink. The machine rolls up over this flat circle and catches the ink. This circle rotates slightly counterclockwise every time to keep the ink spread evenly and stop it from dripping to one side. The rollers went down over the type, and the page was brought up to the print to transfer it. 
![Letterpress ink roller] (images/LetterpressInkRoller.JPG)
This mechanism was controlled by the big wheel. We spun it to start and then used the foot pedal to keep the momentum. It was like a bike, you let it ride up and then push it down. I struggled a bit with the rhythm and using enough force to keep it going. There was a handbrake that professor Cordell was using to stop the press between pages, kind of like how my mum would stop the car when I was learning to drive. We put the pages on the drying rack, and the next group came to use the press. 


## Observations

I struggled with the iron frame’s weight and it was another reminder that this would be a difficult profession to have with a disability. Another part of this that I struggled with was the foot pedal. It was a little difficult to get into the movement, I thought it might actually have been easier if I didn’t see the pieces moving in front of me since I think that was throwing off my rhythm. It also wasn’t constant, it seemed to take a bit longer after a page had been pressed and this was so you had time to take the paper off the machine and replace it with a fresh one. Since we stopped the press between each page, it wasn’t really necessary. I would’ve been interested in trying to do multiple ones in a row and seeing if this helped with my rhythm and operation of the press. 
This exercise made me wonder how the text was justified on a letterpress. I remember seeing some justified text in the archives, and I wish I had asked in class since it’s really bothering me now. It also showed me how much it took to make anything in those days. While you would get practice that would help you do it faster, it still seemed really labour intensive. I can’t imagine going through all that work to do something like these lab reports. It makes sense why they would use this for multiple copies of something since you had already put all that work in you might as well create multiples so you don’t have to do it again. 


## Analysis

I think after doing this entire letterpress excercise I have a much deeper appreciation for antyhing that is type set. Even the English Woman’s Journal reading. The effort that goes into setting that page must also mean that there is more pressure in making sure you have quality writing. When I type, it’s easy for me to just write anything and delete it and change it later. But when you know something is going to be meticulously spelled out and typed, you’d want to make sure it was something good. This is also in the same vein of thought for the David Walker reading. I feel for the people who had to compose that and somehow find enough exclamation marks. It also plays into the 3 different versions that were created. I can understand why they might have adjustments. I’m surprised the index finger made it in all of them, but I guess as it was likely a woodcut it might have been easier to slip in. Changes like the difference in spelling out a number vs using numerals is a bit more difficult to explain exactly why. There are the reasons mentioned in the text, like how it is a spatial thing with the white page and the black text, so spelling it out creates more black on the page. It could have been a stylistic choice to make the numbers seem larger and easier for the reader to connect to. I wonder if maybe the print shop was trying to save type when they used numbers, as we had mentioned in class discussions before that sometimes text had to be reworded if there were only a certain number of letters. 
