# Lab Report: Bookbinding

#### Sabina Stan

## Process Description

In this lab we learned how to bind books. We started with all the materials, which were: an awl, rubber mat, scissors, a roller, 
Next, we folded the pages with a bone folder, making note to line the pages up on the grid on the mat. You pull the bone folder from the middle and then to the edge, and run it up and down the fold. After repeating this for all the pages, we put them in the right order (which first, fold to fold), and then marked where we'd make holes on the innermost page. The middle dot needs to be in the middle, and the two far end ones must be the same distance apart from the edge and the next inner most dots. In total there are 5 dots, the middle is 4.25' the two ends are 1.25' and 0.25', and the final inner most couple are 2.75' and 5.75'. The outside edge ones,(1, 5) are equidistance from the middle dot (3).We lined the pages up on the cradle and there is a guiding wooden piece where you can make sure the lines are flush. Then we made the holes with the awl. We slide the awl down the edge of the paper at an angle, and then moved it straight up and down over the dot and applied pressure. It was pretty easy to get through, luckily as our pages were only 3 thick. Then we measured the string to sew it, which was once around the book, back, and then a half to be sure we had enough length. Then we threaded the thick waxy string onto a thick needle and began to sew. Starting from the inside you go in 3, into 2 from the back, then into 1 from the inside. you go back into 2 from the outside, and then skipping over 3, out 4 from the inside. Then through 5 from the back, back through 4 from the inside, and then back through 3 from the outside. This made it so you had two strings on the inside, both out of 3. We then made the two loose ends on either side of the middle string and tied a knot and trimmed the excess string. Voila! One simply bound book. 

## Observations

I really enjoyed binding the book, I did a second one for fun. I think it's a nice repetitive process and I could find myself getting lost in it. That being said, without the cradle and awl, even without the bone folder, this process is a lot more intensive and a pain. I've tried to do some without those materials and it does not work nearly as easily! I could also see how this isn't a sustainable process. If you wanted to produce a lot of something, this would not be the most efficient way to do so. I think this ties back into how books became mass produced. I appreciate when I can see the string bindings in small notebooks, but even that is most likely made by machines. I won't get too into the discussion of imperfections and humanity and machines since I'll be discussing that in my unessay!

## Analysis

I actually ended up taking what I had learned from this lab, and what I had learned already from binding with my grandmother, and bound a book for my unessay. I enjoy the process of binding, I found it methodical, but I understand this is a pretty simple way of doing it, and it wouldn't work for lots more pages and isn't designed to stand the test of time. This brought me back to thinking about the scribes, and how we've changed what we read on. We've come so far from scrolls and writings on wax tablets, but so far in the sense that much has changed not that it is necessarily vastly superior. As I'm binding my own book, I could see it being a lot nicer to just keep rolling a long piece of paper. It would also be faster to get things out for the scribes if they didn't have to have an arduous binding process. I'm sure there are issues with sustainability there too, but going through the process yourself does make you wonder - if you had to hand bind every book you owned, would you keep books looking the same way as they do on your shelf now? 