# Lab Report: Into the archive

#### Sabina Stan

## Process Description

This lab was spread out over two classes. 
We started in the Northeastern Archives, which has a not only a great old book collection, but we were introduced to their collection of newer books, ‘art books’. I was pretty familiar with their spread of older books as I had been there recently for another class and there was a big overlap with the texts. One that stands out is the Dragon Prayerbook, the only medieval manuscript. It’s a really gorgeous book, and the small size always shocks me. It’s just a bit bigger than my palm, but it’s as thick as a dictionary. The new book section was also really inspiring, it helped with my Unessay actually to think of books in this different way. I hope to go back and spend some more time with the books I didn’t get a chance to that day. 
The second part of the lab took place at the Massachusetts historical society. This was a really lovely visit, I’ve walked past the building many times and never gone in but I hope to go back more now I’ve had the tour. We started by seeing their reading rooms and learning how to conduct research in the space (how to log in, what books are available, their policies). Next, we moved into the seminar room and had a presentation on how to use their website to access the digitized content. There’s only about 1% of their library online, but considering how they have a massive amount of content this is still a considerable amount to have access to. After this, we were able to look at the selection of books they had pulled for us. Since the group was large and we hadn’t taken part in their instruction on how to handle the books our two guides from the historical society flipped pages for us. There was also an old map of Boston. My favourite books were the diaries of Sarah Gooll Putman and the illustrated edition of Peterpan. 
![Putman diary] (images/Putman.JPG) ![Peter-pan] (images/PeterPanIllustrated.JPG)
I really love art in books, especially how Putman did small ones that were integrated into the writing. The Peter-Pan edition was illustrated by Arthur Rackham who is a favourite of mine. I love his work, but he was actually a friend of my great great great great grandfather (I think I have the right amount of greats), so when I look at his work it makes me feel a little connection to home. Another interesting book we saw was an Indian primer. ![Indian Primer] (images/IndianPrimer.JPG)


## Observations

Looking at well preserved historical books is always a pleasure. The Historical Society seems like an amazing resource that we’re lucky to have so close, and I’m looking forward to being able to visit again. I think it is difficult that there isn’t a complete digital library, as it sometimes is difficult for some to get down there, or if you’d like to check something out before traveling there. In addition, the limits of their search engine Abigail is a little frustrating. It’s not a problem if you know what you are looking for, but if you want to browse and be inspired by something, it’s not optimal. This isn’t helped by the fact that their shelves are ‘closed’ and you can’t wander bookshelves to see what catches your eye. It was also a little frustrating that we couldn’t handle the books, I’d have liked to be able to turn some of the pages and explore a bit more. I felt bad having one of the guides stand beside me whenever I would want a page turned.


## Analysis

The Bonnie Mak reading came to mind when looking especially at the children’s books. There was one that had pictures instead of words, but also there was the most blank space out of all of the books there. I think this really impacts how you view the piece, it’s something that will go across languages as well. Blank space feels modern to me. Another reading that I gained more insight for from this visit was the Cushman article on Cherokee languages. As I had mentioned in my reading prep, I have very limited knowledge on this topic. Seeing an Indian Primer (it doesn’t feel right to call it that in this day and age) firsthand really illustrated the impact that the missionaries had. 
![Indian Primer] (images/IndianPrimer.JPG)
It was interesting the short discussion on how this was actually something that is now used to persevere the language (using the language from the Cushman article, I had initially put down preserve), and I can see it benefitting an article like the Cushman one. Although I obviously couldn’t read it, I found the John 16.7,8 spread through it jarring reminders of what the actual contents were. I’m not a big fan of religion, so I didn’t love that this was a part of history but I can see how it has some benefits now. One of the guides had also pulled up the “Elliot Indian Bible” on the screen and it was a similar strange feeling seeing ‘testament’ mixed in with the other language.
![Elliot Indian Bible] (images/ElliotIndianBible.JPG) I think this speaks to the idea mentioned in the Cushman piece that it should be focused on perseverance rather than preservation. This work is perserved, but I hope it can be used in modern ways to keep the language going. 
