# Lab Report: Multisensory reading

#### Sabina Stan

## Process Description

We entered the class and saw many type boxes covering 3d printed versions of 19th century assistive technology, specifically texts for blind people and the different variations that had been invented. We went around to each station and tried to read them while they were covered and see what we could understand. Some of them had images, which was really difficult to make sense of. One thought I had about the snowflake one was - how do you distinguish what is three separate images or one large one? If you already know it's easy, but if you don't how can you know that that large space is a divider between two snowflakes or part of a larger image. One issue that I struggled with was keeping the two parts of the prints together. The easiest text I found to read was the moon text, especially since it had the little curves that would take you down to the next line. This was something that after I had experienced the moon one I suddenly noticed how hard it was on the rest of the texts to find the next line. 

## Observations

Perhaps fittingly, I was in a sling for this day. I have my own disabilities which I've brought up many a time before, and it was just the luck of the draw that my left arm was not fully usable that day. I think this impacted my reading since I couldn't use both hands at the same time, and it was hard to keep the tiles together. One of my partners offered to hold them for me but I wanted to really see what it would be like if this was the situation. I preferred the moon type way more than any of the others. I think it was easy to see how a lot of them had been developed by sighted people. I don't think they can be blamed that they weren't the best systems, it is hard to break out of the box that you know and understand as script and reading. 

## Analysis

We ended this class discussion with audiobooks and listening and reading. I wish the discussion had gone on! The final thoughts were that if it's down to verbiage (if you listen to an audiobook, you listen to it not read it. You read a book, you don't listen to it), should reading braille even be reading? Personally, I think it is still okay to say that it is reading vs feeling. Feeling has a different connotation and definition to it from reading. You wouldn't automatically assume that someone had read something in braille if they said 'I felt the news today'. But if someone said 'I listened to the news today', you would be able to understand what they meant in that moment. I think as well our discussion was marred by the lack of anyone who actually uses braille or is blind to weigh in, and at the end of the day that would have to be where the decision comes from. I think this gets into our reading as well with Howe having good intentions creating his the Boston script, but since it did come from outside the community it didn't have everything that the people using it would actually need.
	I think it could also be argued that they are reading more than just feeling. It's the same as we do with our eyes, recognizing shapes and translating them in our mind. Again, I just feel that listening is fundamentally a different action. If it was in another language, you would just listening as a verb instead. I didn't have terribly strong feelings before this but writing this lab report I guess I suddenly do! Perhaps it's because I'm not a big fan of audiobooks - I just don't feel that personally I absorb the information well through that. Although I do still feel it's fundamentally different. I don't read a movie, what's wrong with it just being a different form of media? 