# Reading Prep: CHAPTER 5: IMAGE 

#### Sabina Stan

## Questions or Observations

1. Marriage of Heaven and Hell readings - I first looked at copy H and copy A side by side. Copy H is brilliantly vibrant, you can often see where colours have been layered and the text is almost always easy to read. The images look finished and the work as a whole seems like it could have just been made. Copy A is a lot softer. If Copy H was the finale of a sunset, bright and brilliant, then Copy A is the start, full of soft pastels. The illustrations almost look incomplete, there are a few where the details found in Copy H are missing or very faint. I think they give a very different feeling to the work as a whole, one is much more intense and you feel that when reading. I looked at E next. I actually thought E had a different cover at first before I took a closer look, which demonstrates how different they are. The cover of E doesn't give the same 'raging pits of hell' atmosphere, I actually thought they were fish at first. E has a completely different feel. It is less intense than H, but almost as if H is just over the top, and E is just doing the job. The painting style seems more controlled and professional as well, I actually wonder what medium they used to do it. I think E or H would be my favourite. E is the easiest to read though, as the yellow on the later pages of H is confusing with the text. 

2. Illuminated printing reading - I'm a few sections in, and still lost on the significance of Blake. He reinvented a printing style with nitric acid so it was faster/easier? But I also thought the beginning was saying this was similar to a more ancient style. I'm hoping as I read it'll be clearer. 
The acid etching reminds me of my grandmother. She did acid etching with stained glass, and she still uses a feather in the acid (It blew my mind as a kind that it wasn't dissolving). I see now how he was doing very different printing than the time usually had. I also love his wife getting involved and painting with him, and we acknowledge her work with his.  

3. Borsuk reading - This isn't a question specifically from this reading but just one I've had for a while... if what we usually call a book is called a 'codex', why is an ebook not an ecodex? I also understand Blake a lot better from this reading versus the previous one. I like the idea that the printing and writing should all be intertwined in creation. It never sat right with me that something would be printed and the illustrations added and then coloured, done by different people. It's like a 3 people working on an essay, it's hard to keep a cohesive vision. Mallarme's text was so confusing to look at, but very peaceful. I think it would be a fun thing to work on a rainy day, trying to figure it out. I also think the note that the font changed in the language change is important, since we've learned how a small change like that can have a huge impact. 
I'm not sure how I feel about the other examples in the rest of the chapter. I like all of them and think they're creative, but I struggle sometimes with how they are a 'book' or codex. I guess this shows how the language we use is so important since it isn't a codex. I struggle to think of them as books, but really I'm thinking of codexes, and so these can be books. But I still don't like to think of them as books! Or what I view as a book! I guess it just has a very sacred spot for me. 
