# Reading Prep: CHAPTER 3: TYPE 

#### Sabina Stan

## Questions or Observations

1. In praise of scribes - makes sense why the monk in the previous reading was so concerned, the pressure that seems to be placed on scribes. I think that whoever wrote this would be quite pleased with computers and their seeming permanence. There seems to be a difference between print and the scribes work, that by taking the time and effort to write by hand the value of the work increases. There is also the art that can be incorporated in writing in scribed texts, but you can do that in printed ones as well. Uniqueness and longevity seem to be the main issues the author has here. 

2.Reading "the Week" article makes me wish Times New Roman wasn't required by so many of my professors! It does make sense that besides the obvious differences in serif and sans serif, fonts really do influence how we read the work. In some ways, the fonts are like the face of the article. We make snap decisions on the content based on who it is coming from. You might trust something more coming from an executive in a suit than someone in sweatpants (or if they were a man vs a woman...). Fonts are like that as well; Comic Sams is the person going to class in a full tracksuit, where Times New Roman is a suit. The doesn't mean that the actual content of the message has changed, but humans are visual and we do like to make judgements on surface level things. The other interesting connection in this article was how serif fonts are easier to read because of the horizontal lines. This made me think of the dyslexia font, and how there are subtle differences that really help someone with dyslexia. The heavier bottoms of the letters, the variable heights, longer sticks all differentiate and make it much easier for someone with dyslexia to read. I wonder if handwritten texts as well have those differences and make it easier, kind of going back to the scribe reading, perhaps another value of scribes. Personally, as someone with dyslexia, I find computers really hard to read on, and I wish I could use the dyslexia font more on them. I find handwriting easier to read on a whole, but most scribed work is often complex with extra lines (like through the o's) which make it harder. And then my own handwriting is terrible and extremely inconsistent but not in a helpful way.                     

3. The woman in typeface article is interesting but I wish there was more to it! In some ways it just feels like a 'hey see they are in publishing, it's not that bad', but we know it is still a male-dominated industry, even if for one book women held all the roles (not simultaneously). In addition, this is a popular book according to the article, but it is still one of the 'women' centred ones. It isn't seen as one of the big important and great works, which might explain why women are working on this rather than something bigger. In addition, the first woman only got her chance to work on it because her husband died, still showing her as below. I don't know, I think it's nice to see that women did have some roles at the time, but it really doesn't feel like it explains the full issue, and should probably have an expletive that this doesn't mean the sexism is over. 


