# Reading Prep: FORMAT

#### Sabina Stan

## Questions or Observations

1. Austen Reading - I actually really dislike Jane Austen's novels, but I found her letters to be refreshing. I had read a different one at first about Mansfield Park (Henrietta Street, Wednesday, March 2 (1814).), which is a novel I never want to read again. I found it so incredibly dull, and it was neat seeing her so excited about it. If I hadn't read Mansfield Park already, I'd be interested in reading it. 
I didn't have my questions from the correct letters. I generally like letters, they feel quite like a stream of consciousness and I do wish I had a pen pal sometimes! They remind me of the stream of consciousness notes I'll sometimes write in my phone. Letters can also seem a bit self-centered since they seem to usually be all about what she was up to but I guess social media can operate in the same way now. Also it's an exchange, we don't have the other half of the conversation.

2. Chesnutt reading - For some reason I think I've heard of the Bodlein club before but I have no idea where. I loved the description of them all marching with the pipes, for some reason it comes to mind like Tintin comics. One question I have is why the uncut copy is so much more expensive and valuable. Is it because it's proof it is new and hasn't been read and therefore the quality is better? Is it the act of cutting the pages, like you're releasing the year of printing into the world? Is it just like when something says it's new in box or new with tags, like a figurine still in the wrapper? 
Now that I have finished the reading, I love this. I think it's so funny and clever to have it printed with nothing. I got an idea that it might be something like that in the middle when the club members seemed to be discussing it but no one really seemed to know what they are talking about (just all postulating). Leaving it blank is brilliant. I think it does speak to how people are obsessed with the idea of a book sometimes more than the contents, and adding a beautiful cover and the dedication Baxter took with it makes it even better. He created this air of mystery over nothing. And I think this club would be helped with some humour. 

3. Price reading - The "time lacks value" part hits home for me. I loved reading (fitting the stereotype laid out here), and I was always absorbed in a book as kid. As I've grown older, reading has taken a backseat. When I sit down to read, I feel guilty I'm not doing all the other things I should be doing, which I don't get in the same way when I open a tab for Youtube. I guess reading is so singularly focused, I have my blinders on. I can't *do* anything else. When I watch a video, I can cook, I can shower, I can write notes (I know it's bad). Part of this is the ADD (I've opened two videos and watched them at the same time, absorbing nothing but keeping my brain occupied), but I think part of it is that reading a book is an all consuming activity, and it is distinctly a leisure one. If I'm distracted on my computer, even reading articles, I'm still closer to doing work. Maybe I'm just on a break or I'm planning to start it soon. 
Interleaf - Oh boy did reading this give me a headache. As I'm sure others did, I found it really hard to keep going back over to the first page for a new line, wanting to stay on the second pageant move down a line. I barely digested the contents because I was focused so much on reading correctly. The other thing that made it difficult is that the lines aren't actually actually straight across the over leaf - the right page is slightly higher up. 
Prescribed reading - I liked this chapter as well. I read a book of my grandmother's sister's poetry before bed most nights when I'm feeling down. I'm not a fan of self-help books but the idea of just happy books is something I think is wonderful. Treating it very similarly to a drug is also an interesting choice. I think books and being 'addicted' to reading always has a whimsical, happy feeling about it. It's a shame that reading is only seen in as a pastime for pleasure, rather than an actual treatment and help.

